&emsp;&emsp;COVID-19 has many sequelae, including lung damage, brain damage, heart damage, and even the induction of diabetes. Why does COVID-19 have so many sequelae? Recent studies have found some potential mechanisms for us.

&emsp;&emsp;The integrated stress response (ISR) is a central signaling regulatory network triggered when protein homeostasis is dysregulated, which is mainly realized by controlling the rate of protein synthesis. This regulation involves the function of the eIF2 ternary complex, which is a heterotrimer composed of the eukaryotic translation initiation factor eIF2 (comprising α, β, and γ subunits), GTP, and a charged methionyl-initiator tRNA (Met-tRNAi). The eIF2 ternary complex enables eIF2B to be sensitively inhibited by the phosphorylated α subunit of eIF2. Currently, four serine/threonine protein kinases that phosphorylate eIF2α have been identified, namely HRI, PERK, PKR, and GCN2. These four protein kinases attenuate mRNA translation by phosphorylating the α subunit of the eukaryotic initiation factor eIF2.

&emsp;&emsp;Viral infection can cause the integrated stress response. According to the paper "SARS-CoV-2 activates ER stress and Unfolded protein response", SARS-CoV-2 induces ER-stress, and the unfolded protein response was observed in Vero and Calu-3 cell lines. SARS-CoV-2 activates the PERK-eIF2α-ATF4-CHOP signaling pathway. Upregulation of ER-related proteins was detected in the lung biopsies of COVID-19 patients and correlated with survival; this series of responses will trigger cell death mechanisms at a later time point.

&emsp;&emsp;According to the paper "Coronavirus-induced ER stress response and its involvement in regulation of coronavirus–host interactions", the overexpression of spike proteins from SARS-CoV, MHV, and HCoV-HKU1 has been shown to induce potent ER stress in cell cultures.

&emsp;&emsp;According to the paper "SARS-CoV-2 infection induces beta cell transdifferentiation", following SARS-CoV-2 infection, insulin expression in beta cells decreases, while the expression of alpha and acinar cell markers (including glucagon and trypsin 1) increases, indicating cell transdifferentiation. Trajectory analysis indicates that SARS-CoV-2 induces eIF2 pathway-mediated beta cell transdifferentiation, and this phenotype can be reversed by a trans-integrated stress response inhibitor (trans-ISRIB).

&emsp;&emsp;The paper "Small molecule cognitive enhancer reverses age-related memory decline in mice," published in eLife in December 2020, studied the impact of ISRIB on memory in aging mice. The paper found that ISRIB can reverse brain aging in mice. There is currently no research on whether ISRIB can be used to reverse the sequelae of brain damage caused by COVID-19, but this direction is worth exploring.