&emsp;&emsp;Human rights are the fundamental rights enjoyed by humanity, encompassing rights involving various factors such as life, politics, economy, and society. However, there is one right that I believe deserves attention, which many people wish to possess but is impossible to have—the right to choose one's birth, that is, the right to choose one's own birth. Discussing this right seems absurd, for how can a person choose their own birth? By the time a person possesses the cognitive ability to make judgments and choices, they have already been born; they cannot choose what kind of parents or family environment to have according to their own will. Given this, is there still any meaning in contemplating the right to choose one's birth? Before answering this question, let us first clarify the meaning of our contemplation: from the perspective of motivation, we can divide thinking into two types: thinking aimed purely at intellectual games, and thinking aimed at practical utility. From this perspective, I believe that by pondering this question, we can clarify many issues while also providing some opinions and references for social practice.

&emsp;&emsp;The reason rights exist is that some people want to possess and exercise them. Accordingly, what kind of people would want to have the right to choose their birth? I think such people might possess the following characteristics: a rich imagination and dissatisfaction with their own birth. The former provides the thinking subject with enough mental space to associate with this rarely noticed or mentioned issue, while the latter indicates the subject's motivation—people generally only think about improving something when they are dissatisfied with it. So, what kind of people would be dissatisfied with their birth? Views on things vary from person to person, but dissatisfaction with one's birth still has its traceable patterns: the impact of a person's birth on them, generally speaking, is nothing more than appearance, personality, family background, economic conditions, and social status. Regarding the views on these conditions, there are still some relatively universal standards in society. These standards are influenced by historical trends, but are also deeply rooted in human nature, or rather, the "selfish nature" of genes attempting to pass themselves on—humans tend to yearn for personal conditions that are more conducive to their own survival, including a good and attractive appearance, a sharp mind, a good family background, and so on. Based on this, we can conclude that those who desire the right to choose their birth are more likely to be the kind of people who are dissatisfied with their own birth. From pop culture and mass culture, we can see some clues about people's views on this: "second-generation rich," "tall, rich, and handsome," "white, rich, and beautiful," etc., are widely aspired to, while "losers" (diaosi) and "poor, short, and ugly" are mocked and belittled. Looking throughout history, except for a few relatively special eras (such as the Cultural Revolution period), the inclination towards possessing more wealth and a more outstanding appearance has always universally existed in human groups. According to the perspective of evolutionary psychology, such preferences are based on psychological mechanisms derived from evolution. Because these mechanisms facilitate the transmission of genes, they have gained a competitive advantage and have been preserved through heredity to this day. In summary, we can say that people are more likely to incline towards becoming those who are envied. Of course, universal standards cannot always measure special individuals. For instance, Nietzsche, who possessed enviable brilliance, was also dissatisfied with his own birth, to the extent that in \*The Birth of Tragedy\*, he spoke through the mouth of the Greek mythological figure Silenus: "What is best of all is utterly beyond your reach: not to be born, not to be, to be nothing. But the second best for you is—to die soon."

&emsp;&emsp;Based on the above discussion, we can know that although the right to choose one's birth is impossible to possess, we can indeed disguisedly satisfy people's desire for this right by taking certain measures to increase future generations' satisfaction with their birth. However, some of the measures to be taken seem a bit "politically incorrect," because to improve the satisfaction of offspring, the reproductive rights of those who would struggle to satisfy their offspring would be compromised. Currently, the relative equality of reproductive rights is widely advocated. Acknowledging the facts shows that relevant policies have not achieved absolute equality in reproductive rights, and diverse personal viewpoints cannot guarantee the reasonable proposition of equality in reproductive rights. But the reproductive instinct deeply rooted in human nature and the long-formed reproductive culture prompt people to support and understand reproductive rights, yet those who advocate for reproductive rights often ignore the right to choose one's birth—the parents are willing to give birth, but are their children willing to be born? Unborn children have no voice, and people rarely even consider the possible thoughts of their offspring (this is reflected in the ignorance and indifference of the majority of people towards disciplines such as biology, genetics, anthropology, ethics, etc., which can provide knowledge about the possibilities of future children). Even starting solely from the point of improving the satisfaction of future generations, among these possible measures, they are still formulated to be effective due to the inability to determine human descendants' satisfaction with their own birth. Currently, Chinese legal regulations only prevent the birth of those who, under normal circumstances, would absolutely not want to be born, such as prohibiting people carrying severe genetic diseases that will absolutely be passed on to their children from reproducing. Besides being "politically incorrect," the impracticability of these measures also lies in the fact that: even if there is some existing standard to formulate measures, the existing standard will immediately change upon implementation along with the changes brought to society by the newly born offspring, and children born earlier might, in turn, be dissatisfied with their own births. Therefore, no matter what, improving human offspring's satisfaction with themselves is by no means an easy task; however, humanity has indeed been consciously or unconsciously increasing the satisfaction of future generations through various measures and has made considerable progress (technological advancement, productivity development, political civilization, etc.). In most countries, including the vast majority of democratic countries and all socialist countries, no laws have been established that make excessive regulations on citizens' reproductive rights, let alone laws involving "discrimination." But there are two democratic countries that are outliers—Singapore and Israel. The former, as a developed country famous for its elitism and possessing the world's highest average national IQ (108), once implemented policies to restrict reproduction among women with low educational backgrounds and encourage women with high educational backgrounds to have more children (the implementation of this series of policies is closely related to the elitism and eugenics concepts pursued by Lee Kuan Yew, the founding father and de facto dictator of Singapore; the fact that Singapore has such a high average IQ is, on one hand, due to its excellent racial foundation—a demographic composition predominantly of ethnic Chinese—and on the other hand, closely related to its elitist policies, including immigration and reproductive policies). And the latter secretly injected Ethiopian Jewish women with sterilization vaccines (the reason behind this internationally condemned policy is related to the low quality of Jews with black ancestry; those who have made enormous contributions to human civilization and possess outstanding intelligence are the Ashkenazi Jews, whose representatives include Albert Einstein, Ludwig Wittgenstein, Lev Landau, and countless other intellectual giants). If facts prove (for example, some scholars' research proves that high-IQ groups not only have higher educational backgrounds but are also wealthier and more law-abiding \[Representative scholars in this field include Richard Lynn, Richard J. Herrnstein, Charles Murray, etc.], and other scholars' research proves that East Asians possess higher intelligence, are more law-abiding, and can earn higher incomes under the same social environment \[Representative scholars in this field include John Philippe Rushton, etc.]) that a certain type of people is more beneficial to social development and that the traits of this type of people will be disseminated through genetics, then should the government formulate policies to encourage such people to reproduce more? Those who ask whether it should or shouldn't be done are intellectuals; ordinary people will only consider their own interests. And democratic countries (except for nominally democratic but practically dictatorial ones like Singapore, and those holding onto Zionism to practice racial differentiation like Israel) are almost impossible to implement such policies due to human rights issues. (Among European countries, the one that is least relaxed in terms of immigration and religious policies is Germany. For example, the German government surprisingly levies taxes on religious believers. The resulting consequence is that Germany, compared to more "democratic" countries like France and Italy, has better public security and fewer racial and religious conflicts.)

&emsp;&emsp;Therefore, dissatisfaction with birth will ultimately and inevitably exist widely among human beings. For the overall development of humanity, this seems to be no big deal, but for specific human individuals, such a destiny may become an eternal and lingering sorrowful tone of their lives.

References:
\[1](英)布莱克本．我们时代的伦理学\[M]．梁曼莉．南京：译林出版社：2009．
\[2](德)尼采．悲剧的诞生\[M]．孙周兴．北京：商务印书馆，2012．
\[3](美)巴斯．进化心理学\[M]．熊哲宏．上海：华东师范大学出版社，2007．
\[4](英)达尔文.人类的由来及性选择\[M]．杨习之.北京：北京大学出版社，2009.
\[5] Lee Kuan Yew, Lee Kuan Yew Hard Truths To Keep Singapore Going \[M]. Singapore Straits Times Press, 2011.
\[6] J.P. Rushton, A.R. Jensen. Thirty Years of Research on Race Differences in Cognitive Ability \[J]. Psychology, Public Policy, and Law, 2005.
\[7] Mark Steyn. America Alone \[M]. Regnery Publishing, Inc. 2006.
\[8] Richard J. Herrnstein, Charles Murray. Bell Curve \[M]. Free Press, 1996.
\[9] Lynn, Richard; Vanhanen, Tatu (2002). IQ and the Wealth of Nations \[M]. Westport, Connecticut: Praeger.

